# 大作文

## 2001

Love

As is vividly shown in the picture, a candle is lit up in a bowl on the ground. Different from any other candle we commonly see, the spark of this one is like a smiling face, indicating love and happiness. The caption above the candle reads, "Love is a light, the darker it faces, the brighter it shines".

What the picture tries to convey to us is that, no matter how tough the hardship is, it would be possible for us to overcome it so long as we hold a belief of love. Take the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008 for example, enormously disastrous as it was, the once-in-a-century earthquake destroyed tens of thousands of buildings, roads, public facilities, and, most regretfully, homes. While the disaster was strong, the love of people from all around the country and even the world was stronger. Thanks to the donations, medical aids, material supplies, and more importantly, the belief and love of themselves, the local people finally recovered from the earthquake and returned to normal life.

To me, love is not only an abstract concept we are always talking about, but also something that we must take into action. Donating old clothes, helping senior citizens across the road, and so on - these are all the little things that can generate great help. The key is whether we do them or not.

## 2002

Cultures - National and International

As is shown above, in the center of the picture stands a lovely American girl, smiling. If we dig into the details, we will find that the most special part is that she is wearing a traditional Chinese costume, which indicates the trend of international cultural exchange nowadays.

In the modern world, with the rise of the Internet, people from all around the world are connected closer than it was a dozen years ago. Since we can now chat with an American or a European without almost any latency, cultural exchange has been profoundly enhanced. Besides what the photo above shows, there are many other similar cases of this phenomenon, for instance, traditional programs of Malaysia are being performed in China, and Chinese orchestras are playing songs that originate from ancient Britain.

In my view, on the one hand, it should be encouraged that people from different countries share their cultural heritage with each other, making the national international. On the other hand, while facing alien cultures, it's important for us to determine whether they are positive or negative, and take in the good ones and dismiss the bad ones.

## 2003

Flowers in Greenhouses

It is vividly depicted in the drawings that a flower used to live in greenhouse cannot go through the storms outside. In the first picture, with rains pouring and lightning flashing, the flower - under the protection of the greenhouse - grows healthily, seeming to be able to overcome any hardships. While in the second picture, without the shelter, the flower fades quickly, showing it's fragile nature.

What the two pictures try to indicate is that people who are spoiled by comfortable environments may be unable to succeed while facing challenges. Take many of the youth born in the late 1990s and early 2000s for example, being the only child of their families, most of them are excessively spoiled by their parents. Those who are over-protected often feel difficult to live their own lives in the real world without others' help, which is definitely not a good phenomenon.

To me, I deem the ability that one can live on one's own as a basic requirement for any youngsters in the 21st century. Specifically, we should be brave and thoughtful while making decisions, and take the responsibilities that come along with the rights. Only when all of our young people are strong can our nation become strong.

## 2004

Never Stop Struggling

As is vividly displayed above, in the center of the drawing is a passionate man running on the track, with a smile on his face. From the indicators on the ground we can learn that he is making the final sprint toward the finishing line, which, at the same time, also represents a new start point.

Thought-provoking meaning that the picture conveys is that, we should never stop challenging ourselves. As the well-known saying goes, "Cease to struggle and you cease to live." Whenever we achieved success - be it great or small - we shouldn't be satisfied. On the contrary, it is of great importance for us to keep on going, for a greater achievement.

Take us college students for example, going to graduate from university in several months, we are still far from getting rid of struggling, in that in front of us stands a brand-new challenge, the society, which is much tougher to deal with than what we've seen before. Therefore, what we should do is to prepare ourselves for the upcoming new stage, instead of to merely cheer up for the long-awaited graduation from school.

## 2005

It is vividly depicted in the drawing that, three men and a woman are playing a "football game". With the "football", their senior father, in the middle of the playground, the four children who are in their primes are guarding their goals to prevent their father from getting in. Under the picture is a caption that reads, "a football match on taking care of old parents".

The symbolic meaning of the cartoon seems apparent, but on the other hand, it's thought-provoking. Since several years ago, from TV news, the Internet, or any other media, we may have learned or witnessed a considerable amount of such cases that some people refuse to take the responsibility of supporting their elderly parents' lives, which is definitely not a desirable phenomenon. Actions are needed to reverse the unhealthy trend.

In my view, it's imperative for us and our government to do the following two things to deal with the phenomenon in question. For one thing, effective regulations should be established to ensure punishment for the behavior of shrugging off the legal liability. For another, we should do whatever helpful to protect the hundreds of thousands of elderly that are not properly taken care of. Only by taking practical actions instead of merely talking can we make the world a better place for senior citizens to live.

## 通用框架

### 中间段——描述社会现象、举例

**Although the drawing itself seems simple, the phenomenon that it reflects is thought-provoking.** **Nowadays,** a great many people are getting more and more timid while facing any difficulties in their daily lives, claiming that it is beyond their capability to tackle the problems. **However,** those formidable-looking challenges usually end up being overestimated in effect. **As an example,** ...

### 结尾段——总结怎么做

#### 好哲理

**Therefore, it is imperative for us youngsters to** confront challenges with no fear, **for the reason that** it's us who will take on the heavy responsibility for building a bright future of our country. **As** Liang Qichao - a prominent philosopher of modern China - **said**, a country can thrive and prosper if and only if the youth are strong and vigorous.

#### 坏现象

**In conclusion, immediate actions should be taken to prevent this unwanted phenomenon from being aggravated and resulting in consequences that are much more serious than those of today.** **Possible solutons include** improvement of regulations, enhancement of people's awareness and so on, **among which the one of the greatest urgence is to** increase the awareness of all members of society of their responsibility for ...

#### 双刃剑

**Therefore, it is of great importance for us to deal with the duality of** ... **in a reasonable manner**. **On the one hand,** ... **On the other hand,** ... **Only in this way can we** make the best use of ...

### 中间段+结尾段——互联网/科技话题

**What we can learn from the cartoon is that** the Internet **is a double-edged sword that we should be cautious about.** **For its positive aspect, it is universally acknowledged that the rapid development of** the Internet and the mobile phone industry **have undoubtedly contributed a significant part to the growth of global economy and enabled people from all walks of life and all around the world to communicate with each other, shortening the distance between different ethnic groups and countries.** **On the contrary, the fact that** the Internet **has also caused** a gradual disconnection between us and those we loved in the real world **is undeniable.**

**Therefore, it is of great importance for us to deal with the duality of** the Internet **in a reasonable manner**. **On the one hand,** we should keep making the most of its power. **On the other hand,** we should get rid of our computers and cellphones from time to time, hanging out with our best friends, instead of staying in the virtual world all the time.
